How Kubernetes Pods Work (#1414)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: articles/how-kubernetes-pods-work/index.md

> In [cloud computing](https://www.section.io/engineering-education/introduction-to-cloud-computing/), a pod is a high-level structure and the tiniest execution object in [Kubernetes](https://www.section.io/engineering-education/what-is-kubernetes/). These pods are temporary such that if one fails, Kubernetes simultaneously models a copy such that the work keeps going on. They are usually in one or several collections.

Reviewer: >  These pods are temporary such that if one fails, Kubernetes simultaneously models a copy such that the work keeps going on. They are usually in one or several collections.

Could you please break this down into smaller sentences? It would be easier to read

> Today, the usage of Kubernetes has become the go-to solution in cloud software management. This is the case because Kubernetes use pods, which is do not run containers directly. As long as a container shares the same pod with another container, they can access the local network and resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, the usage of Kubernetes has become the go-to solution in cloud software management. This is the case because Kubernetes use pods, which do not run containers directly. As long as a container shares the same pod with another container, they can access the local network and resources.
```

Could you please fix the above mentioned error?

This article discusses Kubernetes Pods, their model types, benefits, how they work, and how they communicate with each other in Kubernetes.

### What are Kubernetes Pods?

Before we get to what exactly are Kubernetes pods, it would help if you briefly understand some definitions of the resources inside a Kubernetes system.

> First off, there is the node, a unit of computing hardware in a cluster. It is essentially one machine in the whole arrangement called a cluster. The cluster is the linked hardware machines under one network creating one machine. So much so, it becomes one powerful device as a whole such that in case one node fails, the work is seamlessly divided among the remaining fully functional nodes in the cluster, and the system remains optimally operating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node is a unit of computing hardware in a cluster. It is essentially one machine in the cluster. The cluster refers to the linked hardware nodes under one network creating one machine. So much so, it becomes one powerful device as a whole. In case one node fails, the work is seamlessly divided among the remaining fully functional nodes in the cluster, and the system remains optimally operating.
```

As mentioned earlier, Kubernetes pods create replicas when one fails. But that is not the only reason why copies exist. Even when there is no failure or heavy traffic, replicas still run to reduce failure probability and achieve an optimal load balance in the cluster.

Kubernetes individual pods have their own designated Internet Protocol (IP) address making communication with each other easier. Each pod has its own persistent storage volumes. Besides, every Kubernetes pod contains unique configuration data that dictates precisely how a specific container should operate.

A good example of putting the above into perspective is that if a server only responds to [HTTP](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP#) inquiries, the Kubernetes architecture uses pods. These pods wrap one or more containers and can manage the request without fail.

### Pod model types

#### One-container-per-pod

> This model entails pods operated by a single container, and it is the most common in Kubernetes. Here pods are managed by Kubernetes, which is an indirect approach to running the container.

Reviewer: You could provide an example where each pod model type is used.

Every pod in this model is built only to run one application at a time, thus efficient. Scaling up is possible, although one has to scale up the number of nodes used to match the load balance. This is called replication in the Kubernetes architecture. And the replicated pods are modelled and run as a unit by workload resources through [replication controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicationcontroller/).

### Benefits of a pod

#### Productivity improvement

The first notable benefit of using pods is an increase in productivity within the system. The very simplistic node-to-node communication in the delegation and completion of tasks makes operations run smoothly and in the shortest time possible.

#### Scalability

It is possible to scale up your system using pods, and that is by simply adding nodes into the cluster to scale up your operations. This scaling-up must, however, be done properly for the best outcome.

#### Efficiency improvement

> Efficiency is improved in the replication process, which duplicates a failing pod and delegates another pod that duty. The replication process mainly focuses on enhancing efficiency by reducing failure probability and increasing productivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Efficiency is improved in the replication process, which duplicates a failing pod and delegates that duty to another pod. The replication process focuses on enhancing efficiency by reducing failure probability and increasing productivity.
```

### How does a pod work?

Pods are a product of controllers that are responsible for managing operations within the kubernetes system. Controllers facilitate the rollout, replication, and the overall state of the pods in a cluster. The controller is the delegator of replication of pods if scenario one pod fails.

> There are three main kinds of controllers, namely, j[obs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/), [deployments](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), and [statefulSets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/). Jobs are short-lived such that they only exist until a job is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three main kinds of controllers, namely, [jobs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/), [deployments](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/), and [statefulSets](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/). Jobs are short-lived such that they only exist until a job is complete.
